In this lesson, we're going to continue testing or create user method, and we will create a new test
method to check if the slash user API endpoint responds back with a HTTP status called 400 if we do
not provide one of the required fields.
And this will also confirm if being validations working properly for our forward slash users API endpoint.
Now we have seen validation working in previous lesson, but we still need to create a separate test
method for it.
And this is because there is a chance that validation annotation can be accidentally deleted.
And if we do not have a test method that validates this, then we will introduce a bug in our code that
will remain unnoticed.
So in this lesson we will write a test method that will validate that if users first name is not provided
in the request, then our API endpoint returns HTTP status code 400.
Right.
So I will scroll down and I will create a new test method.
I will also add this plane name.
And this test method will be to check if the first name is not empty.
So the test method name that I will come up with will start with test create user.
This is my method under test and the condition will be when first name is not provided.
Then it should return to the status quo.
400.
Something like this.
Now I will also create a range act and insert sections.
And the arrange section I can actually copy from previous test method because it is going to be very
much similar.
So I will need user details.
Request model.
I will copy it and paste it into my arrange section and I will intentionally set user's first name to
an empty screen.
Like this.
Now in the ACT section, I will need to prepare each request, but I don't have it yet.
So I will scroll up and I will copy request builder from a previous test method.
Request builder will also go to arrange section.
I have an underlining.
Let's move mouse over and add and handle the exception to a method signature.
Now we have this method declaring that it can throw cheese and process in exception.
Let's make our screen a little bit wider.
And now that I have Request Builder, I can perform this request in ACT section.
To do that I will use mock MVC, will call perform method and will provide request builder.
At the end I will add and return.
This will return me MVC result.
And I have a red underlining again.
I will move mouse over and change a metal signature one more time.
This time it will change it to throw a general exception.
Now that I have MVC result, I can work with it to validate if it contains correct HTTP status code.
So in the third section I will assert that it should be status code is 400, which stands for bad request.
I will use assertions assert equals expected value is 400, but the actual value of which should be
status code.
I will read from MVC result.
I will get response object.
And from the response object I can get status like this.
And if these two values are not equal, then I will print a hint message.
Something like incorrect should be status code returned.
Or instead of hard coding HTTP status code 400 here, I can use HTTP status now.
So instead of 400, I will use HTTP status.
This is enum and here I can look for badge request and I can get integer value from it.
Let's put this on a new line and remove this extra pair of double quotes.
All right, so now I can run this this method and see if my create user method is properly configured
to validate users first name property.
I will scroll up a little bit and run this test method.
And it works.
The test method passes.
Now let's assume that we have accidentally remove validation annotation from the create user method
or from user request model object.
So I will go back to my controller class.
This is my method under test create user and let's assume that I have accidentally removed this valid
annotation.
I will save this change and I will go back to my test method and run it one more time.
And now my test method fails.
All right, so if we were making changes to our method in the controller class and we have accidentally
removed this annotation, then validation of a HTTP request body will not work and hopefully our test
method will be able to catch it.
So let's minimize it and let's bring back our valid annotation.
And let's assume that we were making changes in the user details request model and we have accidentally
removed this size annotation.
That means the validation for users first name will not be made and this would also make our test method
fail.
Let's try running it again.
And it fails, but it's make it pass again.
I will go to my user details request model and I will fix the issue, save it and run my test method
again.
And it passes.
Now we can continue testing or create user method and the user details, request, model, class and
make sure that other requirements for other fields are also satisfied.
For example, we started testing users first name and currently this field is annotated with size annotation
and it is configured that the value that is going to be assigned to this field cannot be less than two
characters.
So we might want to create a separate test method to validate that if a user provides first name that
is less than two characters, then in response our API endpoint will return HTTP status code 400 and
we can write similar test method to validate other fields.
For example, fields like last name password and repeat password.
All these fields have requirements for a minimum lengths and fields like password, for example, and
repeat password.
These fields have a requirements for minimum and maximum lengths as well.
So to make sure that our application works as expected, we might want to write separate test methods
to validate each of these fields.
And this is because there is a chance that while editing this class, you or someone else on your team
might accidentally remove one of these validation annotations, or someone might accidentally change
your requirement for password to be minimum eight characters loan.
And if we do not have a separate test method to validate this requirement, then there is a chance that
a serious bug can go through.
All right.
So let's continue to the next lesson.